---
description: The OG quantum cryptographic protocol
---

# BB84

{% hint style="info" %}
Code : [Cirq](../code/cirq/bb84.md)
{% endhint %}

BB84 [1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BB84) is a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol developed by Charles Bennett and Gilles Brassard in 1984.

> BB84 relies on the fact that it is impossible to gain information distinguishing two non-orthogonal states without disturbing the signal.

### Objective

Alice and Bob are physically separate and want to exchange messages securely. One way is to generate [a secret key that only Alice and Bob know](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symmetric-key\_algorithm) and use that to encrypt messages. Keys that are reused can be guessed by eavesdroppers so [key distribution protocols](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key\_distribution) are used to securely generate and distribute new secret keys.

### Prerequisites

* Alice and Bob can communicate via a [classical channel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical\_information\_channel).
* Alice can also prepare qubits in any state and send them to Bob using a unidirectional [quantum channel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum\_channel).

### Running the protocol

1. Alice generates two random binary strings a and b of length n. \
   String a encodes the state\
   String b encodes the basis
2. She then prepares n qubits according to the following prescription: \
   $$|q\rangle_i = \begin{cases} |0\rangle, & \text{if } & a[i] == 0 & \text{and } & b[i] == 0 \\ |1\rangle, & \text{if } & a[i] == 1 & \text{and } & b[i] == 0 \\ |+\rangle, & \text{if } & a[i] == 0 & \text{and } & b[i] == 1 \\ |-\rangle, & \text{if } & a[i] == 1 & \text{and } & b[i] == 1  \end{cases}$$&#x20;
3. Alice sends her qubits to Bob.&#x20;
4. Bob then generates a random binary string c of length n.&#x20;
5. Bob measures the qubit $$|q\rangle_i$$ in the $$\{|0⟩, |1⟩\}$$ basis if $$c[i] == 0$$ and in the$$\{|+⟩,|-⟩\}$$ basis if $$c[i]==1$$ and stores the result in a string m.&#x20;
6. Alice and Bob then announce the strings b and c.

### Generated Key

Strings a and m match in the places where b and c are the same. The remaining bits, the results are uncorrelated.

> The bits from strings a and m where the bases match can be used as a key for cryptography.

### Best case

BB84 is secure against intercept-and-resend attacks. The no-cloning theorem [2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No-cloning\_theorem) guarantees that a qubit that is in an unknown state to begin with cannot be copied or cloned. \
Suppose an eavesdropper Eve intercepts all of Alice's qubits, measures them in a randomly chosen basis, prepares another qubit in the state that she measured and resends it to Bob. Eve cannot clone the exact state Alice prepared, and hence, Alice and Bob will not measure the same outcome a and m when b is equal to c. So the first message Alice should send is encrypted with a, when Bob decrypts the message with his key, he will not be able to match it m, thus detecting Eve's presence.

### Worst case

The worst case is when Eve correctly guesses Alice's basis. the probability of that happening is $$2^{-n}$$. Therefore the more qubits, the lower the chance of Eve eavesdropping by brute-force.

### Real case

In the real world, loss and noise complicates the protocol since It becomes harder to tell if a mismatch is due to Eve or random noise.&#x20;
