# BB84

BB84 [1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BB84) is a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol developed by Charles Bennett and Gilles Brassard in 1984. It was the first quantum cryptographic protocol, using the laws of quantum mechanics (specifically, no-cloning) to provide provably secure key generation.

> BB84 relies on the fact that it is impossible to gain information distinguishing two non-orthogonal states without disturbing the signal.

BB84 relies on the fact that it is impossible to gain information distinguishing two non-orthogonal states without disturbing the signal.

The scheme involves two parties Alice and Bob connected by a classical communication channel. In addition to this, Alice can also prepare qubits in a particular state and send them to Bob using a unidirectional quantum channel.

Alice generates two random binary strings a and b of the same length n. The string a encodes the state and the string b encodes the basis. She then prepares n qubits according to the following prescription:

|q\[i]⟩ = |0⟩ if a\[i] == 0 and b\[i] == 0 |q\[i]⟩ = |1⟩ if a\[i] == 1 and b\[i] == 0 |q\[i]⟩ = |+⟩ if a\[i] == 0 and b\[i] == 1 |q\[i]⟩ = |-⟩ if a\[i] == 1 and b\[i] == 1

where |+/-⟩ = 1/sqrt(2)\*(|0⟩+/-|1⟩).

Alice sends her qubits to Bob. Bob then generates a random binary string c of length n. He measures the qubit |q\[i]⟩ in the {|0⟩, |1⟩} basis (computational basis) if c\[i] == 0 and in the {|+⟩,|-⟩} basis (Hadamard basis) if c\[i] == 1 and stores the result in a string m. Alice and Bob then announce the strings b and c, which encode the random basis choices of Alice and Bob respectively.

The strings a and m match in the places where b and c are the same. This happens because the state was measured in the same basis in which it was prepared. For the remaining bits, the results are uncorrelated. The bits from strings a and m where the bases match can be used as a key for cryptography.

BB84 is secure against intercept-and-resend attacks. The no-cloning theorem [2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No-cloning\_theorem) guarantees that a qubit that is in an unknown state to begin with cannot be copied or cloned. Thus, any measurement will destroy the initial state of the qubit. Suppose an eavesdropper Eve intercepts all of Alice's qubits, measures them in a randomly chosen basis, prepares another qubit in the state that she measured and resends it to Bob. The state Eve measures is not necessarily the state Alice prepared, and hence, Alice and Bob will not measure the same outcome for that qubit even if their basis choices match. Thus, Alice and Bob can detect eavesdropping by comparing a few bits from their obtained keys.

\=== Example output ===

Simulating non-eavesdropped protocol

0: ───X───M───────────

1: ───H───H───M───────

2: ───X───H───M───────

3: ───X───H───M───────

4: ───X───H───M───────

5: ───X───H───H───M───

6: ───H───M───────────

7: ───H───H───M───────

Alice's basis: CHCCCHCH Bob's basis: CHHHHHHH Alice's bits: 10111100 Bases match:: XX\_\_\_X\_X Expected key: 1010 Actual key: 1010

Simulating eavesdropped protocol

0: ───H───M───────────H───M───────────

1: ───H───M───────────H───H───M───────

2: ───X───H───H───M───X───H───H───M───

3: ───H───M───────────H───M───────────

4: ───M───────────────M───────────────

5: ───X───H───M───────X───H───M───────

6: ───H───M───────────X───H───M───────

7: ───X───H───H───M───X───H───M───────

Alice's basis: HCHCCHCH Bob's basis: HHHCCHCC Alice's bits: 00100101 Bases match:: X\_XXXXX\_ Expected key: 010010 Actual key: 111011
